Very often exclusivity “just happens”. You’re dating each other, grow closer and closer,
until there is no question about it: you only want to see each other, and nobody else.

if exclusivity is not your thing, meaning you just want to date
without strings attached, make it clear during the first few dates. Let the other person
know what they’re getting into, so you don’t waste their time.

You
can seal the deal once they start bringing up things, such as:
-
They talk about you meeting their parents.
-
They talk about you meeting their friends.
-
They’re asking where the two of you stand.
And other, similar subjects, generally understood to be “couple things”.

--

GROUND RULE: ONCE YOU BECOME EXCLUSIVE WITH SOMEONE, YOU
DROP EVERYONE ELSE YOU’RE DATING. YOU WILL NOT SEE ANYONE ELSE
ROMANTICALLY, ONLY YOUR NOW-EXCLUSIVE PARTNER.

Depending on how many dates you’ve had with them you can either not contact
them anymore, or tell them how you really enjoyed dating, but someone asked you to be
exclusive and you accepted their offer. Nice and easy. Oh, and then don’t contact them ever
again.
That last point might sound a bit harsh, but how would you feel if your partner still
chatted around casually with random people whom they dated in the past? Best to keep things
clean and clear-cut.

--

Relationships need constant, and I
mean constant maintenance in order to hold together. Basically both of you should continue
doing the things that made you fall in love with each other in the first place.

Don't adopt the attitude of “mission
accomplished, I’m done,” and stop making an effort.

TIP: Do not stop dating.
Keep having casual, romantic fun together at least once every 2-3 weeks. You don’t have
to go to a restaurant or somewhere expensive; just spend fun, romantic, quality time together,
allowing both of you to bond with each other.

TIP: Spare them of your annoying habits.
Obviously you’ll be more casual and relaxed around each other, but this does not mean you should go lazy. limit behaviors that annoy them, and ask
communicate about this openly, but gently and tactfully in order not to hurt their feelings so they can do the same.

--

Meeting the parents entails them getting to see someone (you) who might
potentially become part of the family one day. Therefore, behave appropriately.
When meeting the parents, you will:
-
Dress up nicely.
-
Bring a small gift (consult with your partner about it beforehand).
-
Keep the mood positive.
-
Behave like a person you’d want your children to bring home.
- Do not ever engage the parents in political debate! That’s the easiest way of getting
kicked out of the house.

--

living together is hard. You’ll be exposed to each other’s
negative traits more often and for longer periods of time. You don’t just meet for a few hours
every 1-2 weeks, fully dressed up and on your best behaviors. You’ll be together, in the same
private space every single day.

Living together requires constant effort. If you let go of the steering wheel and relax
completely, and start treating your romantic partner as little more than a roommate, it’s just a
matter of time before the relationship implodes. Familiarity breeds indifference, resentment or
both.

your job is to avoid becoming roommates, getting cabin fever, and getting on
each others’ nerves.

- minimise announances, know what triggers them and avoid
- Don't stop daing, once every 1-2 weeks have quality time together out of routine
- Keep a private space if you stay at home a lot
- Stay clean (be always clean and tidy, smell nice, clean after yourself)
- Agree on chores upfront and make it balanced, who does what and when

--

At some point the two of you will argue about something. One day both of you will find
yourselves grumpy and annoyed, only for a disagreement to come crashing into the scene.

NEVER ESCALATE AN ARGUMENT

Even if you “win” an argument, the other person will feel
resentful about it.

Remain as calm and polite as possible
throughout the argument. Never be the one to start yelling. Show that you listened to and
understood the other person’s argument. If you still disagree, insist on your position, but do so
politely. Do not be dismissive or smug. Remember that you love this person and chose to live with them, you two are better than that moment.

magic
phrase to end all arguments:
“We’ll just agree to disagree about that.”

--

money will play a central
part in your relationships. As such, very often it is the primary source of conflict. Discuss and agree how you want to manage it.

A common option is to have a shared account where both contribute an equal amount. Whenever you have to spend on things that benefit both, use that pool of money.

You still have your money, and you can still spend it on whatever you want.

 Here are some
tips how to mitigate that risk:
-
Have a common bank account where both of you send a certain amount every month.
-
Both of you should always stay informed regarding your finances.
-
Agree on the amount of spending above which you should inform each other, and/or
discuss beforehand.
-
Keep track of income and expenses to avoid nasty surprises.
- In case of money problems, sit down together and discuss a plan to overcome issues, then
abide by the plan!
- If you feel your partner is irresponsible with their money, sit down and talk with, instead of judging, teach them to do better.

--

healthy relationship needs balance

if you do more things right than wrong, you’ll be fine. If you do more things wrong than
right, you’ll be single. The same applies to your partner: if they do more things wrong than right,
you’ll end up dropping them.

Once the other person’s
feelings penetrate a certain threshold, they will become completely disillusioned, and there won’t
be a single thing you can do to fix things. If you recognize and counteract issues before crossing
that line however, you have a chance of turning things around!

Here are some common signs when that balance is negative:
-
They touch you less.
-
They feel more distant, physically and mentally.
-
They don’t kiss you as often.
84
-
They’re less affectionate towards you.
-
They get irritated / annoyed at you more easily.
-
They’re more prone to arguments with you.
-
They’re less enthusiastic about having sex.

--

In terms of solutions, a good rule of thumb is going back to the basics. Behave more like
during the dating phase. Spend a bit more time away from home, making yourself more scarce.
Take your partner out on dates every week where you keep things positive and light. Avoid
arguments like the plague, and be on your best behavior around them at all times.
In addition, if it’s you who’s being turned off, identify the things your partner does that
turn you off. Feel free to have a conversation about this in a considerate manner. If your partner’s
negatives are not something they would change, consider how you can minimize your exposure
to those negatives.
The bottom line is this: both of you should ideally strive to be like the person you were
on the first few dates; even more so if you smell trouble.

--

Chances are this will happen to you at some point. Getting dumped feels horrible; as if a
part of you is ripped out of your chest. The more intertwined your lives are, the longer the
relationship lasted, the more difficult and complicated it’ll be.
It bears repeating: when it’s over, it’s over. Once someone reaches the point of no return,
where they’re comfortable with letting you go, the two of you are done forever.

When the other person pulls the plug on you, do not:
-
Fight them on it.
-
Argue with them.
-
Try to convince them otherwise.
-
Cause a scene.
When the other person pulls the plug on you, do:
-
Calmly acknowledge it.
-
Agree to it (you have no choice).
-
Discuss what happens to common property.
-
Discuss who moves out (in case of living together).

--

If you are the one doing the breakup

If you’re not yet exclusive and only had 1-3 dates or so, you’re strangers. You don’t owe
them anything, and vice versa. Just stop calling them and inviting them out on dates. If they
reach out, tell them an old ex came back and you took them back. This is a white lie, protecting
the other person from emotional harm, and you from unnecessary drama.

If you’re not exclusive but had more than 3 dates, you owe them a phone call. You call
them, apologize and tell them you’ve had fun together, but an old ex came back and you took
them back.

If you’re exclusive, you owe them an in-person sit-down and apology. I wouldn’t show
up with a list of things they did wrong, as I wouldn’t want to be the cause of someone’s suicide.
Neither would you, I hope. If you want to let someone go as gently as humanly possible, which
is something you should want, here’s a line you can use:
90
“I don’t know what happened. I feel like I cannot continue. I really enjoyed being
together, but my feelings for you are just gone somehow. I need to get my head together. I’m
sorry it’s over.”

Once you give them the aforementioned talk, stick around for a good half an hour. If they
get upset, curse you, rage at you, let them. Once that’s done, you’re outta there for good. If they
get violent however, like throwing stuff at you or trying to physically accost you, get outta there
immediately, and never look back.

Discuss your parting (items, finances, apartment, etc.) sometime afterwards, when both of
you calmed down a bit. This can be done via text or phone call.


--

At the end, one of you should move out, items should be exchanged, common bank
accounts, money, subscriptions, and so on, must be sorted out. All ties must be severed. All loose
ends must be tied up. Your goal is to exit the relationship as cleanly as possible, with as little
drama as possible.

The easiest way of getting over someone is by replacing them with someone new.
I repeat.
The easiest way of getting over someone is by replacing them with someone new.
Did your partner drop you after some months, a year or more together? I know it sucks. I
know it hurts. Do meet with your friends and/or family for emotional support. Do talk about it
with them. Do examine what went wrong. Do keep yourself composed and stable.
In the meantime, get back into the dating scene as soon as you can! Go to social outings,
install a dating app, do the things I wrote about in the beginning. Meet people, ask for numbers,
go on dates, have fun!
